---
cover: ../.gitbook/assets/ad (1).jpg
coverY: 0
---

# 💠 Overview

{% hint style="danger" %}
Piteas has no any governance or utility tokens yet! Please beware of scammers.

**This content is currently in draft mode and being updated.**
{% endhint %}

Piteas is a project that generates revenue and has its own economic model. To strengthen the protocol, empower the community in decision-making, and manage the economy generated from the revenue, it will have a utility token that serves as governance and utility tool.

The PTS Token, which will serve as the governance and utility token for Piteas, is designed to have limited supply and be resistant to manipulations.

### Token Details:

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th width="255"></th><th></th><th data-hidden></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Name</td><td>Piteas Token</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Symbol</td><td>PTS</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Decimal</td><td>-</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Supply</td><td>-</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Chain</td><td>Pulsechain (ChainId: 369)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Contract Address</td><td><em><mark style="color:red;">Not deployed yet!</mark></em></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Explorer</td><td><em><mark style="color:red;">Not deployed yet!</mark></em></td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>

#### What are the Token Utilities?

* **Buyback Progress:** Revenue generated by the protocol will be used for periodic buybacks from the market. The purchased tokens can be burned or used for the benefit of protocol users or the community.
* **Governance:** DAO - Governance model will be established to ensure that all key decisions regarding Piteas are not centralized and token holders have the power to participate in important protocol decisions using PTS Tokens. _(coming soon)_
* **Single Side Staking:** Token holders can lock their assets to earn passive income. The rewards will initially be supported by the protocol treasury and will also have a claim on the staking rewards from the protocol's revenue. _(coming soon)_
* **Gasless Trade:** Gas fees for swap transactions on Piteas will be paid with PTS Tokens instead of PLS, creating a significant use case for the token. _(coming soon)_
* **Swap Fee Reduction:** The fee charged by the protocol for swap transactions will be dynamic based on the proportion of the token you stake. _(coming soon)_

#### So, how does Piteas generate revenue?

As you know, Piteas aggregates liquidity from multiple DEXs, allowing you to swap at the best rate. After the protocol's launch, it currently provides services with a 0% swap fee, and there will be some updates after the TGE process. We will determine how much better our best offer is compared to the next best offer, without exceeding our commitment to providing the best price on the network, and charge a portion of the saving as protocol revenue. Our priority is the widespread adoption and usage of the protocol.

The second revenue model is positive slippage. This represents the profit generated from the change in liquidity on the network until the swap transaction is confirmed, which positively affects the output amount. We do not charge a fee for every swap transaction, only when positive slippage occurs.

_We are continuing the development process to create new use cases for PTS Token and provide privileges for token holders._
