# 🐇 Token Utility

The PTS Token, which will serve as the governance and utility token for Piteas, is designed to have limited supply and be resistant to manipulations.

#### What are the Token Utilities?

* **Buyback Progress:** Revenue generated by the protocol will be used for periodic buybacks from the market. The purchased tokens can be burned or used for the benefit of protocol users or the community.
* **Liquidity Provide:** Liquidity assets are of great importance for a token's strength, which is why we will use protocol revenue to provide liquidity and keep liquidity assets strong. The protocol generates revenue from various tokens, not just a fixed token. Therefore, the generated revenue can be in PTS, PLS, or any other tokens. Liquidity will be provided with PTS and the tokens obtained as a result of the revenue.
* **PTS Burning Model:** The treasury permanently removes tokens from supply by burning the ones it buys back from the market. This creates direct deflationary pressure on the token, making it more valuable. Unlike staking, where tokens can indirectly create sell pressure, here the treasury destroys them instead. That means as the protocol generates revenue, PTS continues to experience deflation. Development on the burn model is still ongoing. _<mark style="color:$primary;">(in progress)</mark>_
* **Governance:** DAO - Governance model will be established to ensure that all key decisions regarding Piteas are not centralized and token holders have the power to participate in important protocol decisions using PTS Tokens. _<mark style="color:$info;">(planned)</mark>_
* **Gasless Trade:** Gas fees for swap transactions on Piteas will be paid with PTS Tokens instead of PLS, creating a significant use case for the token. _<mark style="color:$info;">(planned)</mark>_
* **Swap Fee Reduction:** An on-chain algorithm calculates how much PTS you hold and for how long as like a reputation system, assigning a ratio to each wallet. This ratio gives you discounts on swap transactions—meaning you also indirectly share in the protocol’s revenue. _<mark style="color:$info;">(planned)</mark>_

{% hint style="success" %}
_At least 50% of protocol revenue is used/will be used as token utility._
{% endhint %}
